---
layout: post
title: How I Became a Mac Convert
image: /img/mac/preview/apple_preview.jpg
description: Rants about Macs and Computers
---

As a programmer, I like the concept of DRY - Don't Repeat Yourself. So
given that enough people have asked me about my choice in computers,
I've decided to just write a quick article about it, given that it'll
be more maintainable this way. :)

<div class="center">
  <img src="/img/mac/apple_rainbow_logo.jpeg" alt="Apple!" class="two-hundred" />
</div>

So I recently ditched a brand-new spanking T420 after approximately 8
months of use, but with good reason - to spend even more money and
purchase a Late-2011 Macbook Pro! ...don't sound convinced? Well here's
my attempt.

There are a few major concerns people have with Macs and really it comes
down to what you're looking for in a computer. Since people are starting
to bash on me for using a Mac, I'll also list my complaints that I've
had with other operating systems:

Windows
---
So my major use cases on most machines go something like this:

1. Internet Browsing
2. Coding
3. Design Work
4. Gaming

Windows can handle 3/4 of those things correctly, and that's probably
why I've been on Windows for so long - because I haven't found the
extremely poor coding environment in Windows to be a problem until now,
when I've gotten serious about it.

Sure, there's Visual Studio and .NET, and while I do find that C# > Java
in many aspects, I would not use it for any personal projects given that
most of my projects would not fit in to that niche. Albeit there's Mono
and things, but that's besides the point, the things you can do in Ruby
or most scripting languages requires much less boilerplate code than in
the C/Java family of languages, and when I do run in to scaling issues
there are so many things that I could do that wouldn't require the use
of the Microsoft toolset.

The other thing is that I'm more than capable of dual-booting between
two systems on my Mac and OS X is more than capable for the above tasks
(if not better, except for gaming), so it would be well worth it to keep
a Windows partition just for testing or gaming (not that a MBP is much
of a gaming machine).

As a consumer device, I wouldn't really recommend a Mac as it's
considerably overpriced for the hardware, and you can see my major
reason for switching is for point 2. Albeit, I do find a lot of things
on OS X to be nicer than Windows like workspaces and the really sexy
hand gesture-centric focus on the operating system, but I would not pay
several hundred dollars more for features that I could invest in another
monitor or hardware to make up for it.

Linux (Ubuntu, specifically)
---

Linux - what can I say. When I heard about Unity desktop and the first
time I tried it, I was rather excited. On my Thinkpad T420 it would be
the lean, mean ultimate coding machine. But sadly it didn't really
suffice for many reasons. 

The darn thing kept crashing!

I thought Thinkpads were built for Linux, heck it's even "Ubuntu
Certified." From all the drivers I had to download to get my trackpad to
work half-decently, to all the hacks I had to do to get it to stop
consuming so much power, to all the times the darn thing crashed on me
while I was in the middle of my coding, I finally gave up. I ended up
using the Windows OS more than Ubuntu on the dual-boot because I
wouldn't have to worry about the thing eating up the ridiculously large
9-volt battery up in an hour.

At the very least, OS X could still provide me with a very familiar bash
terminal (though I hear zsh is pretty sexy), and still provide me with a
less-prone-to-crash shiny interface.

There's one major thing going for Linux, though:

    sudo apt-get install [MAGIC THINGS I WOULD LIKE INSTALLED]

Super simple package management. Though with brew, I can do something
similar:

    sudo brew install [MAGIC THINGS, BUT NOT AS MANY AS APT-GET]

..and that's the thing, there's so much community behind Mac that you'll
find that most tools will be available for it. Or at least in my case,
as for doing lots of web-related development.

So there you have it, you've heard my criticisms about the operating
systems I've used, but of course Macs are not perfect either and I do
have some complaints.

My Mac
---

So here are some things I've used to pimp up my MBP:

RAM Upgrades
===
This is pretty essential - Apple charges you ~$200 more for 4 GB more of
RAM, when you can just order it off of Amazon for ~$40! I highly
recommend doing it yourself as it's a very simple and cheap way to get
your MBP blazing fast, especially with multiple workspaces and a
crapload of Chrome tabs.

SSD
===
I haven't done this yet, as they are darn expensive and the Asian floods
have increased the price, but I've seen quite a few tempting
purchase-worthy drives on Amazon.

If you're afraid of the cost or afraid that an SSD will not have enough
space, I've heard good things about the Hybrid SSDs from Seagate:

### TODO ###

...that's really all you can do with a MBP - no graphics card since I
have the 13-inch. Albeit, it's not much different from the Thinkpad as
their 14-inch models don't sport a graphics card, and I've actually
found Starcraft 2 to run much smoother on my OS X than the Thinkpad
(though the processor on this MBP is 2.8 GHz over the i7 2.7 GHz on the
Thinkpad)

So that's my rant - I have more to talk about if you ask me, but you can
see my use case and why it covers it quite well. So haters can keep on
hating, but I lurve my Macbook~~~

I use a Macbook Air at PagerDuty, and I really love the form-factor, but
the lack of upgradibility makes me a little worried as I have found it
slow to run tests and to run my local servers, so I wouldn't get an
Macbook Air for personal use. But I love it as a work laptop, as I can
bring it home easily and use it everywhere (so you ought to try working
there if you're a Waterloo co-op or looking for an internship :P).
I'd definitely consider buying them if they come up with 15" ones. (That's
right Apple, SHUT UP AND TAKE MY MONEY!)

If you have any questions or comments, leave a comment below, or follow
me on Twitter (@j_ckao)
